





Now that we have covered all event storming concepts and did our first event storming session
let's go through ten tips that will help you facilitate your event storming sessions.


1. Have the right stakeholders in the room.


This is the most important piece of advice that can make your event storming better.
Without the right people your event storming might not provide much value.


2. Make sure to plan the session and be clear about goals and non-goals.


Most probably you will have several sessions and not just one.
Be clear about the goal of each session - for example by saying "In this session we will be covering only actors and commands.".


3. Send instructions upfront.
As you already see, there is some context about this technique.


Make sure that participants can read about what is event storming and what are different types of stickies.


4. You can also accompany instructions with an example.
Although for some participants instructions will work well, for others a concrete example of a full event storming board can work even better.


5. Keep insisting on non-technical language.


You will have both technical and non-technical people in the room.
It is your job to keep the tone non-technical so that everyone can follow.


Be aware of engineers going into the details of implementation.


6. I read somewhere that when you mention the word aggregate during event storming, domain experts tend to fall a sleep.


Be very careful with the discussion on aggregates dragging on.
You can even consider leaving aggregates for the last session and have it with engineers-only.


7. Engage silent participants.


Usually the loudest people will drive the conversation.
However, often the loudest ones are not the ones that have the most knowledge.


Engage silent participants by asking "What do you think?".


8. Exploring an unknown domain model is a rough road.
There will for sure be moments when the group will get stuck.


It is your job to unblock progress by adding a big question mark, noting the ambiguity and encouraging to move on.


9. After few sessions the value and knowledge that people will get out of the sessions will diminish.


Be mindful of this and know when to stop.


Sometimes a quick pulse-check after the session can help with determining if participants are willing to keep event storming.


10. And finally have fun!


Event storming should not be a super serious and formal experience.


Elicit informal behaviour by doing an icebreaker at the start of each session and keeping the tone fun and light.


And that's it!  
Now you should be ready to facilitate your own event storming sessions.